
For as long as humanity exists our evolution has depended on natural selection by reproduction involving the different sexes. The integration of a male sperm with a female egg would lead to offspring. Yin and Yang.

http://www.nature.com/news/rudimentary-egg-and-sperm-cells-made-from-stem-cells-1.16636
Israeli and UK researchers have created human sperm and egg precursor cells in a dish, starting from a person's skin cells. The achievement is a small step towards a treatment for infertility, although one that could face significant controversy and regulatory hurdles.

The experiment, reported online in Cell on 24 December1, recreates in humans parts of a procedure first developed in mice, in which cells called induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells — ‘reprogrammed’ cells that can differentiate into almost any cell type — are used to create sperm or eggs that are subsequently manipulated to produce live births by in vitro fertilization. The study team found that a gene, SOX17, had a key role in steering human cells to become different types of precursor cells. This was surprising as the gene has no role in these processes in mice.
In principle, the process could even be used to derive egg cells from a man's body. These could be fertilized in vitro by another man's sperm and the resulting embryo could then be implanted in a surrogate mother — enabling the two men to have a biological child together. But the technical hurdles would be formidable: in particular, men do not have ovaries in which the precursor cells could be allowed to mature into eggs. Moreover, the idea would be guaranteed to face controversy.
"It is really important to emphasize that while this scenario might be technically possible and feasible, it is remote at this stage and many challenges need to be overcome," Hanna says. Enabling two women to have biological children together seems even more remote, the authors add, because only men have the Y chromosome, which is essential for the production of sperm cells.


Applications mentioned in literature:
1. Allowing same sex couples to have children that are genetically alike
2. The ability to make immature sperm and eggs from patients’ skin means scientists will be able to compare how they develop differently when they are made from healthy versus infertile people 
3. Researching how chemotherapy can be modified in such a way that it doesn't affect fertility
4. the cells may hold the secrets for treating certain age-related diseases. As people age they accumulate not only genetic mutations, but other changes to their DNA. These epigenetic changes can be caused by smoking, exposure to chemicals in the environment, or diet and other lifestyle factors. But the cells that form sperm and eggs are wiped clean of their epigenetic changes early on. “This could tell us how to erase these epigenetic mutations. Epigenetics is used to regulate gene expression, but in age-related diseases, these changes can be aberrant and misregulate genes



